# development trajectory

The final goal is to use the accel-sensor in the watch (BMA423), which does not exist yet.
In order to minimize the effort:

> 
> * we'll use something that looks like it (ADXL372), because there exists an example.


> * next we adapt it to use the existing BMA280 sensor (under drivers/sensor), so we get a sample that works with the BMA280.


> * we create a driver for the BMA423, based upon the BMA280


> * we adapt the sample for the BMA280 to BMA423

# Bosch BMA280

```
west build -p -b pinetime samples/drivers/bma280
```

## Overview

This sample application mimics the presence of a bosch, bma280 accel sensor.
For this sensor exists a driver in zephyr, but no sample.
Remember, I'm not a zephyr expert and am learning on the way.

## Requirements

complement the pinetime.dts file with the following (under samples/sensor/bma280)

This will supplement / override what's already definition on the board level (boards/arm/pinetime)

```
&i2c1 {
        bma280@18 {
                   compatible = "bosch,bma280";
                   reg = <0x18>;
                   label = "BMA280";
                   int1-gpios = <&gpio0 8 0>;
                  };
       };
```

Create a file: /dts/bindings/sensor/bosch,bma280-i2c.yaml.
Which contains:

```
compatible: "bosch,bma280"
include: i2c-device.yaml
properties:
       int1-gpios:
       type: phandle-array
       required: false
```

## Building and Running

## Todo

> 
> * since no serial port and no J-LINK, I have to print messages to the screen (see sample gui/lvaccel)


> * I adapted the BMA driver so it accepts the CHIP_ID, further registers are subject to investigation, since no doc

## References

BMA421 is not a part number available to the general public, and therefore all the supporting documentation and design resources are neither discussed in public forums, nor disclosed on GitHub.

CHIP_ID=0X11  (so 423 drivers need to be adapted)
